Title: Configuration | Tauri

Description: The cross-platform app building toolkit

Skip to content

Configuration
=============

The Tauri configuration object. It is read from a file where you can define your frontend assets, configure the bundler and define a tray icon.

The configuration file is generated by the `tauri init` command that lives in your Tauri application source directory (src-tauri).

Once generated, you may modify it at will to customize your Tauri application.

### File Formats

Section titled “File Formats”

By default, the configuration is defined as a JSON file named `tauri.conf.json`.

Tauri also supports JSON5 and TOML files via the `config-json5` and `config-toml` Cargo features, respectively. The JSON5 file name must be either `tauri.conf.json` or `tauri.conf.json5`. The TOML file name is `Tauri.toml`.

### Platform-Specific Configuration

Section titled “Platform-Specific Configuration”

In addition to the default configuration file, Tauri can read a platform-specific configuration from `tauri.linux.conf.json`, `tauri.windows.conf.json`, `tauri.macos.conf.json`, `tauri.android.conf.json` and `tauri.ios.conf.json` (or `Tauri.linux.toml`, `Tauri.windows.toml`, `Tauri.macos.toml`, `Tauri.android.toml` and `Tauri.ios.toml` if the `Tauri.toml` format is used), which gets merged with the main configuration object.

### Configuration Structure

Section titled “Configuration Structure”

The configuration is composed of the following objects:

*   `app`: The Tauri configuration
*   `build`: The build configuration
*   `bundle`: The bundle configurations
*   `plugins`: The plugins configuration

Example tauri.config.json file:

```
{  "productName": "tauri-app",  "version": "0.1.0",  "build": {    "beforeBuildCommand": "",    "beforeDevCommand": "",    "devUrl": "http://localhost:3000",    "frontendDist": "../dist"  },  "app": {    "security": {      "csp": null    },    "windows": [      {        "fullscreen": false,        "height": 600,        "resizable": true,        "title": "Tauri App",        "width": 800      }    ]  },  "bundle": {},  "plugins": {}}
```

**Object Properties**:

*   app
*   build
*   bundle
*   identifier (required)
*   mainBinaryName
*   plugins
*   productName
*   version

### app

Section titled “app”

`AppConfig`

The App configuration.

Default

```
{  "enableGTKAppId": false,  "macOSPrivateApi": false,  "security": {    "assetProtocol": {      "enable": false,      "scope": []    },    "capabilities": [],    "dangerousDisableAssetCspModification": false,    "freezePrototype": false,    "pattern": {      "use": "brownfield"    }  },  "windows": [],  "withGlobalTauri": false}
```

### build

Section titled “build”

`BuildConfig`

The build configuration.

Default

```
{  "additionalWatchFolders": [],  "removeUnusedCommands": false}
```

### bundle

Section titled “bundle”

`BundleConfig`

The bundler configuration.

Default

```
{  "active": false,  "android": {    "minSdkVersion": 24  },  "createUpdaterArtifacts": false,  "iOS": {    "minimumSystemVersion": "14.0"  },  "icon": [],  "linux": {    "appimage": {      "bundleMediaFramework": false,      "files": {}    },    "deb": {      "files": {}    },    "rpm": {      "epoch": 0,      "files": {},      "release": "1"    }  },  "macOS": {    "dmg": {      "appPosition": {        "x": 180,        "y": 170      },      "applicationFolderPosition": {        "x": 480,        "y": 170      },      "windowSize": {        "height": 400,        "width": 660      }    },    "files": {},    "hardenedRuntime": true,    "minimumSystemVersion": "10.13"  },  "targets": "all",  "useLocalToolsDir": false,  "windows": {    "allowDowngrades": true,    "certificateThumbprint": null,    "digestAlgorithm": null,    "nsis": null,    "signCommand": null,    "timestampUrl": null,    "tsp": false,    "webviewInstallMode": {      "silent": true,      "type": "downloadBootstrapper"    },    "wix": null  }}
```

### identifier

Section titled “identifier”

`string`

The application identifier in reverse domain name notation (e.g. `com.tauri.example`). This string must be unique across applications since it is used in system configurations like the bundle ID and path to the webview data directory. This string must contain only alphanumeric characters (A-Z, a-z, and 0-9), hyphens (-), and periods (.).

### mainBinaryName

Section titled “mainBinaryName”

`string` | `null`

Overrides app’s main binary filename.

By default, Tauri uses the output binary from `cargo`, by setting this, we will rename that binary in `tauri-cli`’s `tauri build` command, and target `tauri bundle` to it

If possible, change the `package name` or set the `name field` instead, and if that’s not enough and you’re using nightly, consider using the `different-binary-name` feature instead

Note: this config should not include the binary extension (e.g. `.exe`), we’ll add that for you

### plugins

Section titled “plugins”

`PluginConfig`

The plugins config.

**Default**: `{}`

### productName

Section titled “productName”

`string` | `null` pattern of `^[^/\:*?"<>|]+$`

App name.

### version

Section titled “version”

`string` | `null`

App version. It is a semver version number or a path to a `package.json` file containing the `version` field.

If removed the version number from `Cargo.toml` is used. It’s recommended to manage the app versioning in the Tauri config.

#### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **macOS**: Translates to the bundle’s CFBundleShortVersionString property and is used as the default CFBundleVersion. You can set an specific bundle version using `bundle &gt; macOS &gt; bundleVersion`.
*   **iOS**: Translates to the bundle’s CFBundleShortVersionString property and is used as the default CFBundleVersion. You can set an specific bundle version using `bundle &gt; iOS &gt; bundleVersion`. The `tauri ios build` CLI command has a `--build-number &lt;number&gt;` option that lets you append a build number to the app version.
*   **Android**: By default version 1.0 is used. You can set a version code using `bundle &gt; android &gt; versionCode`.

By default version 1.0 is used on Android.

Definitions
-----------

Section titled “Definitions”

### AndroidConfig

Section titled “AndroidConfig”

General configuration for the Android target.

**Object Properties**:

*   minSdkVersion
*   versionCode

##### minSdkVersion

Section titled “minSdkVersion”

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

The minimum API level required for the application to run. The Android system will prevent the user from installing the application if the system’s API level is lower than the value specified.

**Default**: `24`

##### versionCode

Section titled “versionCode”

`integer` | `null` maximum of `2100000000`, minimum of `1`, formatted as `uint32`

The version code of the application. It is limited to 2,100,000,000 as per Google Play Store requirements.

By default we use your configured version and perform the following math: versionCode = version.major \* 1000000 + version.minor \* 1000 + version.patch

### AppConfig

Section titled “AppConfig”

The App configuration object.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#appconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   enableGTKAppId
*   macOSPrivateApi
*   security
*   trayIcon
*   windows
*   withGlobalTauri

##### enableGTKAppId

Section titled “enableGTKAppId”

`boolean`

If set to true “identifier” will be set as GTK app ID (on systems that use GTK).

##### macOSPrivateApi

Section titled “macOSPrivateApi”

`boolean`

MacOS private API configuration. Enables the transparent background API and sets the `fullScreenEnabled` preference to `true`.

##### security

Section titled “security”

`SecurityConfig`

Security configuration.

Default

```
{  "assetProtocol": {    "enable": false,    "scope": []  },  "capabilities": [],  "dangerousDisableAssetCspModification": false,  "freezePrototype": false,  "pattern": {    "use": "brownfield"  }}
```

##### trayIcon

Section titled “trayIcon”

`TrayIconConfig` | `null`

Configuration for app tray icon.

##### windows

Section titled “windows”

`WindowConfig`\[\]

The app windows configuration.

###### Example:

Section titled “Example:”

To create a window at app startup

```
{  "app": {    "windows": [      { "width": 800, "height": 600 }    ]  }}
```

If not specified, the window’s label (its identifier) defaults to “main”, you can use this label to get the window through `app.get_webview_window` in Rust or `WebviewWindow.getByLabel` in JavaScript

When working with multiple windows, each window will need an unique label

```
{  "app": {    "windows": [      { "label": "main", "width": 800, "height": 600 },      { "label": "secondary", "width": 800, "height": 600 }    ]  }}
```

You can also set `create` to false and use this config through the Rust APIs

```
{  "app": {    "windows": [      { "create": false, "width": 800, "height": 600 }    ]  }}
```

and use it like this

```
tauri::Builder::default()  .setup(|app| {    tauri::WebviewWindowBuilder::from_config(app.handle(), app.config().app.windows[0])?.build()?;    Ok(())  });
```

**Default**: `[]`

##### withGlobalTauri

Section titled “withGlobalTauri”

`boolean`

Whether we should inject the Tauri API on `window.__TAURI__` or not.

### AppImageConfig

Section titled “AppImageConfig”

Configuration for AppImage bundles.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#appimageconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   bundleMediaFramework
*   files

##### bundleMediaFramework

Section titled “bundleMediaFramework”

`boolean`

Include additional gstreamer dependencies needed for audio and video playback. This increases the bundle size by ~15-35MB depending on your build system.

##### files

Section titled “files”

The files to include in the Appimage Binary.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

### AssetProtocolConfig

Section titled “AssetProtocolConfig”

Config for the asset custom protocol.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#assetprotocolconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   enable
*   scope

##### enable

Section titled “enable”

`boolean`

Enables the asset protocol.

##### scope

Section titled “scope”

`FsScope`

The access scope for the asset protocol.

**Default**: `[]`

### AssociationExt

Section titled “AssociationExt”

`string`

An extension for a \[`FileAssociation`\].

A leading `.` is automatically stripped.

### BackgroundThrottlingPolicy

Section titled “BackgroundThrottlingPolicy”

**One of the following**:

*   `"disabled"` A policy where background throttling is disabled
*   `"suspend"` A policy where a web view that’s not in a window fully suspends tasks. This is usually the default behavior in case no policy is set.
*   `"throttle"` A policy where a web view that’s not in a window limits processing, but does not fully suspend tasks.

Background throttling policy.

### BeforeDevCommand

Section titled “BeforeDevCommand”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` Run the given script with the default options.
*   Run the given script with custom options. **Object Properties**: - cwd - script (required) - wait ##### cwd `string` | `null` The current working directory. ##### script `string` The script to execute. ##### wait `boolean` Whether `tauri dev` should wait for the command to finish or not. Defaults to `false`.

Describes the shell command to run before `tauri dev`.

### BuildConfig

Section titled “BuildConfig”

The Build configuration object.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#buildconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   additionalWatchFolders
*   beforeBuildCommand
*   beforeBundleCommand
*   beforeDevCommand
*   devUrl
*   features
*   frontendDist
*   removeUnusedCommands
*   runner

##### additionalWatchFolders

Section titled “additionalWatchFolders”

`string`\[\]

Additional paths to watch for changes when running `tauri dev`.

**Default**: `[]`

##### beforeBuildCommand

Section titled “beforeBuildCommand”

`HookCommand` | `null`

A shell command to run before `tauri build` kicks in.

The TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM, TAURI\_ENV\_ARCH, TAURI\_ENV\_FAMILY, TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM\_VERSION, TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM\_TYPE and TAURI\_ENV\_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### beforeBundleCommand

Section titled “beforeBundleCommand”

`HookCommand` | `null`

A shell command to run before the bundling phase in `tauri build` kicks in.

The TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM, TAURI\_ENV\_ARCH, TAURI\_ENV\_FAMILY, TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM\_VERSION, TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM\_TYPE and TAURI\_ENV\_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### beforeDevCommand

Section titled “beforeDevCommand”

`BeforeDevCommand` | `null`

A shell command to run before `tauri dev` kicks in.

The TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM, TAURI\_ENV\_ARCH, TAURI\_ENV\_FAMILY, TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM\_VERSION, TAURI\_ENV\_PLATFORM\_TYPE and TAURI\_ENV\_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### devUrl

Section titled “devUrl”

`string` | `null` formatted as `uri`

The URL to load in development.

This is usually an URL to a dev server, which serves your application assets with hot-reload and HMR. Most modern JavaScript bundlers like Vite provides a way to start a dev server by default.

If you don’t have a dev server or don’t want to use one, ignore this option and use `frontendDist` and point to a web assets directory, and Tauri CLI will run its built-in dev server and provide a simple hot-reload experience.

##### features

Section titled “features”

`string`\[\] | `null`

Features passed to `cargo` commands.

##### frontendDist

Section titled “frontendDist”

`FrontendDist` | `null`

The path to the application assets (usually the `dist` folder of your javascript bundler) or a URL that could be either a custom protocol registered in the tauri app (for example: `myprotocol://`) or a remote URL (for example: `https://site.com/app`).

When a path relative to the configuration file is provided, it is read recursively and all files are embedded in the application binary. Tauri then looks for an `index.html` and serves it as the default entry point for your application.

You can also provide a list of paths to be embedded, which allows granular control over what files are added to the binary. In this case, all files are added to the root and you must reference it that way in your HTML files.

When a URL is provided, the application won’t have bundled assets and the application will load that URL by default.

##### removeUnusedCommands

Section titled “removeUnusedCommands”

`boolean`

Try to remove unused commands registered from plugins base on the ACL list during `tauri build`, the way it works is that tauri-cli will read this and set the environment variables for the build script and macros, and they’ll try to get all the allowed commands and remove the rest

Note:

*   This won’t be accounting for dynamically added ACLs when you use features from the `dynamic-acl` (currently enabled by default) feature flag, so make sure to check it when using this
*   This feature requires tauri-plugin 2.1 and tauri 2.4

##### runner

Section titled “runner”

`RunnerConfig` | `null`

The binary used to build and run the application.

### BundleConfig

Section titled “BundleConfig”

Configuration for tauri-bundler.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#bundleconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   active
*   android
*   category
*   copyright
*   createUpdaterArtifacts
*   externalBin
*   fileAssociations
*   homepage
*   icon
*   iOS
*   license
*   licenseFile
*   linux
*   longDescription
*   macOS
*   publisher
*   resources
*   shortDescription
*   targets
*   useLocalToolsDir
*   windows

##### active

Section titled “active”

`boolean`

Whether Tauri should bundle your application or just output the executable.

##### android

Section titled “android”

`AndroidConfig`

Android configuration.

Default

```
{  "minSdkVersion": 24}
```

##### category

Section titled “category”

`string` | `null`

The application kind.

Should be one of the following: Business, DeveloperTool, Education, Entertainment, Finance, Game, ActionGame, AdventureGame, ArcadeGame, BoardGame, CardGame, CasinoGame, DiceGame, EducationalGame, FamilyGame, KidsGame, MusicGame, PuzzleGame, RacingGame, RolePlayingGame, SimulationGame, SportsGame, StrategyGame, TriviaGame, WordGame, GraphicsAndDesign, HealthcareAndFitness, Lifestyle, Medical, Music, News, Photography, Productivity, Reference, SocialNetworking, Sports, Travel, Utility, Video, Weather.

##### copyright

Section titled “copyright”

`string` | `null`

A copyright string associated with your application.

##### createUpdaterArtifacts

Section titled “createUpdaterArtifacts”

`Updater`

Produce updaters and their signatures or not

##### externalBin

Section titled “externalBin”

`string`\[\] | `null`

A list of—either absolute or relative—paths to binaries to embed with your application.

Note that Tauri will look for system-specific binaries following the pattern “binary-name{-target-triple}{.system-extension}”.

E.g. for the external binary “my-binary”, Tauri looks for:

*   “my-binary-x86\_64-pc-windows-msvc.exe” for Windows
*   “my-binary-x86\_64-apple-darwin” for macOS
*   “my-binary-x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu” for Linux

so don’t forget to provide binaries for all targeted platforms.

##### fileAssociations

Section titled “fileAssociations”

`FileAssociation`\[\] | `null`

File associations to application.

##### homepage

Section titled “homepage”

`string` | `null`

A url to the home page of your application. If unset, will fallback to `homepage` defined in `Cargo.toml`.

Supported bundle targets: `deb`, `rpm`, `nsis` and `msi`.

##### icon

Section titled “icon”

`string`\[\]

The app’s icons

**Default**: `[]`

##### iOS

Section titled “iOS”

`IosConfig`

iOS configuration.

Default

```
{  "minimumSystemVersion": "14.0"}
```

##### license

Section titled “license”

`string` | `null`

The package’s license identifier to be included in the appropriate bundles. If not set, defaults to the license from the Cargo.toml file.

##### licenseFile

Section titled “licenseFile”

`string` | `null`

The path to the license file to be included in the appropriate bundles.

##### linux

Section titled “linux”

`LinuxConfig`

Configuration for the Linux bundles.

Default

```
{  "appimage": {    "bundleMediaFramework": false,    "files": {}  },  "deb": {    "files": {}  },  "rpm": {    "epoch": 0,    "files": {},    "release": "1"  }}
```

##### longDescription

Section titled “longDescription”

`string` | `null`

A longer, multi-line description of the application.

##### macOS

Section titled “macOS”

`MacConfig`

Configuration for the macOS bundles.

Default

```
{  "dmg": {    "appPosition": {      "x": 180,      "y": 170    },    "applicationFolderPosition": {      "x": 480,      "y": 170    },    "windowSize": {      "height": 400,      "width": 660    }  },  "files": {},  "hardenedRuntime": true,  "minimumSystemVersion": "10.13"}
```

##### publisher

Section titled “publisher”

`string` | `null`

The application’s publisher. Defaults to the second element in the identifier string.

Currently maps to the Manufacturer property of the Windows Installer and the Maintainer field of debian packages if the Cargo.toml does not have the authors field.

##### resources

Section titled “resources”

`BundleResources` | `null`

App resources to bundle. Each resource is a path to a file or directory. Glob patterns are supported.

###### Examples

Section titled “Examples”

To include a list of files:

```
{  "bundle": {    "resources": [      "./path/to/some-file.txt",      "/absolute/path/to/textfile.txt",      "../relative/path/to/jsonfile.json",      "some-folder/",      "resources/**/*.md"    ]  }}
```

The bundled files will be in `$RESOURCES/` with the original directory structure preserved, for example: `./path/to/some-file.txt` -> `$RESOURCE/path/to/some-file.txt`

To fine control where the files will get copied to, use a map instead

```
{  "bundle": {    "resources": {      "/absolute/path/to/textfile.txt": "resources/textfile.txt",      "relative/path/to/jsonfile.json": "resources/jsonfile.json",      "resources/": "",      "docs/**/*md": "website-docs/"    }  }}
```

Note that when using glob pattern in this case, the original directory structure is not preserved, everything gets copied to the target directory directly

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/develop/resources/\>

##### shortDescription

Section titled “shortDescription”

`string` | `null`

A short description of your application.

##### targets

Section titled “targets”

`BundleTarget`

The bundle targets, currently supports \[“deb”, “rpm”, “appimage”, “nsis”, “msi”, “app”, “dmg”\] or “all”.

**Default**: `"all"`

##### useLocalToolsDir

Section titled “useLocalToolsDir”

`boolean`

Whether to use the project’s `target` directory, for caching build tools (e.g., Wix and NSIS) when building this application. Defaults to `false`.

If true, tools will be cached in `target/.tauri/`. If false, tools will be cached in the current user’s platform-specific cache directory.

An example where it can be appropriate to set this to `true` is when building this application as a Windows System user (e.g., AWS EC2 workloads), because the Window system’s app data directory is restricted.

##### windows

Section titled “windows”

`WindowsConfig`

Configuration for the Windows bundles.

Default

```
{  "allowDowngrades": true,  "certificateThumbprint": null,  "digestAlgorithm": null,  "nsis": null,  "signCommand": null,  "timestampUrl": null,  "tsp": false,  "webviewInstallMode": {    "silent": true,    "type": "downloadBootstrapper"  },  "wix": null}
```

### BundleResources

Section titled “BundleResources”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string`\[\] A list of paths to include.
*   A map of source to target paths. **Allows additional properties**: `string`

Definition for bundle resources. Can be either a list of paths to include or a map of source to target paths.

### BundleTarget

Section titled “BundleTarget”

**Any of the following**:

*   `"all"` Bundle all targets.
*   `BundleType`\[\] A list of bundle targets.
*   `BundleType` A single bundle target.

Targets to bundle. Each value is case insensitive.

### BundleType

Section titled “BundleType”

**One of the following**:

*   `"deb"` The debian bundle (.deb).
*   `"rpm"` The RPM bundle (.rpm).
*   `"appimage"` The AppImage bundle (.appimage).
*   `"msi"` The Microsoft Installer bundle (.msi).
*   `"nsis"` The NSIS bundle (.exe).
*   `"app"` The macOS application bundle (.app).
*   `"dmg"` The Apple Disk Image bundle (.dmg).

A bundle referenced by tauri-bundler.

### BundleTypeRole

Section titled “BundleTypeRole”

**One of the following**:

*   `"Editor"` CFBundleTypeRole.Editor. Files can be read and edited.
*   `"Viewer"` CFBundleTypeRole.Viewer. Files can be read.
*   `"Shell"` CFBundleTypeRole.Shell
*   `"QLGenerator"` CFBundleTypeRole.QLGenerator
*   `"None"` CFBundleTypeRole.None

macOS-only. Corresponds to CFBundleTypeRole

### Capability

Section titled “Capability”

A grouping and boundary mechanism developers can use to isolate access to the IPC layer.

It controls application windows’ and webviews’ fine grained access to the Tauri core, application, or plugin commands. If a webview or its window is not matching any capability then it has no access to the IPC layer at all.

This can be done to create groups of windows, based on their required system access, which can reduce impact of frontend vulnerabilities in less privileged windows. Windows can be added to a capability by exact name (e.g. `main-window`) or glob patterns like `*` or `admin-*`. A Window can have none, one, or multiple associated capabilities.

##### Example

Section titled “Example”

```
{  "identifier": "main-user-files-write",  "description": "This capability allows the `main` window on macOS and Windows access to `filesystem` write related commands and `dialog` commands to enable programmatic access to files selected by the user.",  "windows": [    "main"  ],  "permissions": [    "core:default",    "dialog:open",    {      "identifier": "fs:allow-write-text-file",      "allow": [{ "path": "$HOME/test.txt" }]    },  ],  "platforms": ["macOS","windows"]}
```

**Object Properties**:

*   description
*   identifier (required)
*   local
*   permissions (required)
*   platforms
*   remote
*   webviews
*   windows

##### description

Section titled “description”

`string`

Description of what the capability is intended to allow on associated windows.

It should contain a description of what the grouped permissions should allow.

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

This capability allows the `main` window access to `filesystem` write related commands and `dialog` commands to enable programmatic access to files selected by the user.

##### identifier

Section titled “identifier”

`string`

Identifier of the capability.

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

`main-user-files-write`

##### local

Section titled “local”

`boolean`

Whether this capability is enabled for local app URLs or not. Defaults to `true`.

**Default**: `true`

##### permissions

Section titled “permissions”

`PermissionEntry`\[\] each item must be unique

List of permissions attached to this capability.

Must include the plugin name as prefix in the form of `${plugin-name}:${permission-name}`. For commands directly implemented in the application itself only `${permission-name}` is required.

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

```
[  "core:default",  "shell:allow-open",  "dialog:open",  {    "identifier": "fs:allow-write-text-file",    "allow": [{ "path": "$HOME/test.txt" }]  }]
```

##### platforms

Section titled “platforms”

`Target`\[\] | `null`

Limit which target platforms this capability applies to.

By default all platforms are targeted.

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

`["macOS","windows"]`

##### remote

Section titled “remote”

`CapabilityRemote` | `null`

Configure remote URLs that can use the capability permissions.

This setting is optional and defaults to not being set, as our default use case is that the content is served from our local application.

Caution

Make sure you understand the security implications of providing remote sources with local system access.

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

```
{  "urls": ["https://*.mydomain.dev"]}
```

##### webviews

Section titled “webviews”

`string`\[\]

List of webviews that are affected by this capability. Can be a glob pattern.

The capability will be enabled on all the webviews whose label matches any of the patterns in this list, regardless of whether the webview’s window label matches a pattern in \[`Self::windows`\].

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

`["sub-webview-one", "sub-webview-two"]`

##### windows

Section titled “windows”

`string`\[\]

List of windows that are affected by this capability. Can be a glob pattern.

If a window label matches any of the patterns in this list, the capability will be enabled on all the webviews of that window, regardless of the value of \[`Self::webviews`\].

On multiwebview windows, prefer specifying \[`Self::webviews`\] and omitting \[`Self::windows`\] for a fine grained access control.

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

`["main"]`

### CapabilityEntry

Section titled “CapabilityEntry”

**Any of the following**:

*   `Capability` An inlined capability.
*   `string` Reference to a capability identifier.

A capability entry which can be either an inlined capability or a reference to a capability defined on its own file.

### CapabilityRemote

Section titled “CapabilityRemote”

Configuration for remote URLs that are associated with the capability.

**Object Properties**:

*   urls (required)

##### urls

Section titled “urls”

`string`\[\]

Remote domains this capability refers to using the URLPattern standard.

###### Examples

Section titled “Examples”

*   “https://\*.mydomain.dev”: allows subdomains of mydomain.dev
*   “https://mydomain.dev/api/\*”: allows any subpath of mydomain.dev/api

### Color

Section titled “Color”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` pattern of `^#?([A-Fa-f0-9]{3}|[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}|[A-Fa-f0-9]{8})$` Color hex string, for example: #fff, #ffffff, or #ffffffff.
*   `integer` formatted as `uint8` | `integer` formatted as `uint8` | `integer` formatted as `uint8`\[\] maximum of `3` items, minimum of `3` items Array of RGB colors. Each value has minimum of 0 and maximum of 255.
*   `integer` formatted as `uint8` | `integer` formatted as `uint8` | `integer` formatted as `uint8` | `integer` formatted as `uint8`\[\] maximum of `4` items, minimum of `4` items Array of RGBA colors. Each value has minimum of 0 and maximum of 255.
*   Object of red, green, blue, alpha color values. Each value has minimum of 0 and maximum of 255. **Object Properties**: - alpha - blue (required) - green (required) - red (required) ##### alpha `integer` formatted as `uint8` **Default**: `255` ##### blue `integer` formatted as `uint8` ##### green `integer` formatted as `uint8` ##### red `integer` formatted as `uint8`

### Csp

Section titled “Csp”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` The entire CSP policy in a single text string.
*   An object mapping a directive with its sources values as a list of strings. **Allows additional properties**: `CspDirectiveSources`

A Content-Security-Policy definition. See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP\>.

### CspDirectiveSources

Section titled “CspDirectiveSources”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` An inline list of CSP sources. Same as \[`Self::List`\], but concatenated with a space separator.
*   `string`\[\] A list of CSP sources. The collection will be concatenated with a space separator for the CSP string.

A Content-Security-Policy directive source list. See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/Sources#sources\>.

### CustomSignCommandConfig

Section titled “CustomSignCommandConfig”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` A string notation of the script to execute. “%1” will be replaced with the path to the binary to be signed. This is a simpler notation for the command. Tauri will split the string with `' '` and use the first element as the command name and the rest as arguments. If you need to use whitespace in the command or arguments, use the object notation \[`Self::ScriptWithOptions`\].
*   An object notation of the command. This is more complex notation for the command but this allows you to use whitespace in the command and arguments. **Object Properties**: - args (required) - cmd (required) ##### args `string`\[\] The arguments to pass to the command. “%1” will be replaced with the path to the binary to be signed. ##### cmd `string` The command to run to sign the binary.

Custom Signing Command configuration.

### DebConfig

Section titled “DebConfig”

Configuration for Debian (.deb) bundles.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#debconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   changelog
*   conflicts
*   depends
*   desktopTemplate
*   files
*   postInstallScript
*   postRemoveScript
*   preInstallScript
*   preRemoveScript
*   priority
*   provides
*   recommends
*   replaces
*   section

##### changelog

Section titled “changelog”

`string` | `null`

Path of the uncompressed Changelog file, to be stored at /usr/share/doc/package-name/changelog.gz. See <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-docs.html#changelog-files-and-release-notes\>

##### conflicts

Section titled “conflicts”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of package conflicts.

##### depends

Section titled “depends”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of deb dependencies your application relies on.

##### desktopTemplate

Section titled “desktopTemplate”

`string` | `null`

Path to a custom desktop file Handlebars template.

Available variables: `categories`, `comment` (optional), `exec`, `icon` and `name`.

##### files

Section titled “files”

The files to include on the package.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

##### postInstallScript

Section titled “postInstallScript”

`string` | `null`

Path to script that will be executed after the package is unpacked. See <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-maintainerscripts.html\>

##### postRemoveScript

Section titled “postRemoveScript”

`string` | `null`

Path to script that will be executed after the package is removed. See <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-maintainerscripts.html\>

##### preInstallScript

Section titled “preInstallScript”

`string` | `null`

Path to script that will be executed before the package is unpacked. See <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-maintainerscripts.html\>

##### preRemoveScript

Section titled “preRemoveScript”

`string` | `null`

Path to script that will be executed before the package is removed. See <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-maintainerscripts.html\>

##### priority

Section titled “priority”

`string` | `null`

Change the priority of the Debian Package. By default, it is set to `optional`. Recognized Priorities as of now are : `required`, `important`, `standard`, `optional`, `extra`

##### provides

Section titled “provides”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of dependencies the package provides.

##### recommends

Section titled “recommends”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of deb dependencies your application recommends.

##### replaces

Section titled “replaces”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of package replaces.

##### section

Section titled “section”

`string` | `null`

Define the section in Debian Control file. See : https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-archive.html#s-subsections

### DisabledCspModificationKind

Section titled “DisabledCspModificationKind”

**Any of the following**:

*   `boolean` If `true`, disables all CSP modification. `false` is the default value and it configures Tauri to control the CSP.
*   `string`\[\] Disables the given list of CSP directives modifications.

The possible values for the `dangerous_disable_asset_csp_modification` config option.

### DmgConfig

Section titled “DmgConfig”

Configuration for Apple Disk Image (.dmg) bundles.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#dmgconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   applicationFolderPosition
*   appPosition
*   background
*   windowPosition
*   windowSize

##### applicationFolderPosition

Section titled “applicationFolderPosition”

`Position`

Position of application folder on window.

Default

```
{  "x": 480,  "y": 170}
```

##### appPosition

Section titled “appPosition”

`Position`

Position of app file on window.

Default

```
{  "x": 180,  "y": 170}
```

##### background

Section titled “background”

`string` | `null`

Image to use as the background in dmg file. Accepted formats: `png`/`jpg`/`gif`.

##### windowPosition

Section titled “windowPosition”

`Position` | `null`

Position of volume window on screen.

##### windowSize

Section titled “windowSize”

`Size`

Size of volume window.

Default

```
{  "height": 400,  "width": 660}
```

### FileAssociation

Section titled “FileAssociation”

File association

**Object Properties**:

*   description
*   ext (required)
*   mimeType
*   name
*   rank
*   role

##### description

Section titled “description”

`string` | `null`

The association description. Windows-only. It is displayed on the `Type` column on Windows Explorer.

##### ext

Section titled “ext”

`AssociationExt`\[\]

File extensions to associate with this app. e.g. ‘png’

##### mimeType

Section titled “mimeType”

`string` | `null`

The mime-type e.g. ‘image/png’ or ‘text/plain’. Linux-only.

##### name

Section titled “name”

`string` | `null`

The name. Maps to `CFBundleTypeName` on macOS. Default to `ext[0]`

##### rank

Section titled “rank”

`HandlerRank`

The ranking of this app among apps that declare themselves as editors or viewers of the given file type. Maps to `LSHandlerRank` on macOS.

**Default**: `"Default"`

##### role

Section titled “role”

`BundleTypeRole`

The app’s role with respect to the type. Maps to `CFBundleTypeRole` on macOS.

**Default**: `"Editor"`

### FrontendDist

Section titled “FrontendDist”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` formatted as `uri` An external URL that should be used as the default application URL.
*   `string` Path to a directory containing the frontend dist assets.
*   `string`\[\] An array of files to embed on the app.

Defines the URL or assets to embed in the application.

### FsScope

Section titled “FsScope”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string`\[\] A list of paths that are allowed by this scope.
*   A complete scope configuration. **Object Properties**: - allow - deny - requireLiteralLeadingDot ##### allow `string`\[\] A list of paths that are allowed by this scope. **Default**: `[]` ##### deny `string`\[\] A list of paths that are not allowed by this scope. This gets precedence over the \[`Self::Scope::allow`\] list. **Default**: `[]` ##### requireLiteralLeadingDot `boolean` | `null` Whether or not paths that contain components that start with a `.` will require that `.` appears literally in the pattern; `*`, `?`, `**`, or `[...]` will not match. This is useful because such files are conventionally considered hidden on Unix systems and it might be desirable to skip them when listing files. Defaults to `true` on Unix systems and `false` on Windows

Protocol scope definition. It is a list of glob patterns that restrict the API access from the webview.

Each pattern can start with a variable that resolves to a system base directory. The variables are: `$AUDIO`, `$CACHE`, `$CONFIG`, `$DATA`, `$LOCALDATA`, `$DESKTOP`, `$DOCUMENT`, `$DOWNLOAD`, `$EXE`, `$FONT`, `$HOME`, `$PICTURE`, `$PUBLIC`, `$RUNTIME`, `$TEMPLATE`, `$VIDEO`, `$RESOURCE`, `$APP`, `$LOG`, `$TEMP`, `$APPCONFIG`, `$APPDATA`, `$APPLOCALDATA`, `$APPCACHE`, `$APPLOG`.

### HandlerRank

Section titled “HandlerRank”

**One of the following**:

*   `"Default"` LSHandlerRank.Default. This app is an opener of files of this type; this value is also used if no rank is specified.
*   `"Owner"` LSHandlerRank.Owner. This app is the primary creator of files of this type.
*   `"Alternate"` LSHandlerRank.Alternate. This app is a secondary viewer of files of this type.
*   `"None"` LSHandlerRank.None. This app is never selected to open files of this type, but it accepts drops of files of this type.

Corresponds to LSHandlerRank

### HeaderConfig

Section titled “HeaderConfig”

A struct, where the keys are some specific http header names.

If the values to those keys are defined, then they will be send as part of a response message. This does not include error messages and ipc messages

##### Example configuration

Section titled “Example configuration”

```
{ //..  app:{    //..    security: {      headers: {        "Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy": "same-origin",        "Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy": "require-corp",        "Timing-Allow-Origin": [          "https://developer.mozilla.org",          "https://example.com",        ],        "Access-Control-Expose-Headers": "Tauri-Custom-Header",        "Tauri-Custom-Header": {          "key1": "'value1' 'value2'",          "key2": "'value3'"        }      },      csp: "default-src 'self'; connect-src ipc: http://ipc.localhost",    }    //..  } //..}
```

In this example `Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy` and `Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy` are set to allow for the use of `SharedArrayBuffer`. The result is, that those headers are then set on every response sent via the `get_response` function in crates/tauri/src/protocol/tauri.rs. The Content-Security-Policy header is defined separately, because it is also handled separately.

For the helloworld example, this config translates into those response headers:

```
access-control-allow-origin:  http://tauri.localhostaccess-control-expose-headers: Tauri-Custom-Headercontent-security-policy: default-src 'self'; connect-src ipc: http://ipc.localhost; script-src 'self' 'sha256-Wjjrs6qinmnr+tOry8x8PPwI77eGpUFR3EEGZktjJNs='content-type: text/htmlcross-origin-embedder-policy: require-corpcross-origin-opener-policy: same-origintauri-custom-header: key1 'value1' 'value2'; key2 'value3'timing-allow-origin: https://developer.mozilla.org, https://example.com
```

Since the resulting header values are always ‘string-like’. So depending on the what data type the HeaderSource is, they need to be converted.

*   `String`(JS/Rust): stay the same for the resulting header value
*   `Array`(JS)/`Vec\&lt;String\&gt;`(Rust): Item are joined by ”, ” for the resulting header value
*   `Object`(JS)/ `Hashmap\&lt;String,String\&gt;`(Rust): Items are composed from: key + space + value. Item are then joined by ”; ” for the resulting header value

**Object Properties**:

*   Access-Control-Allow-Credentials
*   Access-Control-Allow-Headers
*   Access-Control-Allow-Methods
*   Access-Control-Expose-Headers
*   Access-Control-Max-Age
*   Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy
*   Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy
*   Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy
*   Permissions-Policy
*   Service-Worker-Allowed
*   Tauri-Custom-Header
*   Timing-Allow-Origin
*   X-Content-Type-Options

##### Access-Control-Allow-Credentials

Section titled “Access-Control-Allow-Credentials”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The Access-Control-Allow-Credentials response header tells browsers whether the server allows cross-origin HTTP requests to include credentials.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Credentials\>

##### Access-Control-Allow-Headers

Section titled “Access-Control-Allow-Headers”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The Access-Control-Allow-Headers response header is used in response to a preflight request which includes the Access-Control-Request-Headers to indicate which HTTP headers can be used during the actual request.

This header is required if the request has an Access-Control-Request-Headers header.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Headers\>

##### Access-Control-Allow-Methods

Section titled “Access-Control-Allow-Methods”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The Access-Control-Allow-Methods response header specifies one or more methods allowed when accessing a resource in response to a preflight request.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Methods\>

##### Access-Control-Expose-Headers

Section titled “Access-Control-Expose-Headers”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The Access-Control-Expose-Headers response header allows a server to indicate which response headers should be made available to scripts running in the browser, in response to a cross-origin request.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Expose-Headers\>

##### Access-Control-Max-Age

Section titled “Access-Control-Max-Age”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The Access-Control-Max-Age response header indicates how long the results of a preflight request (that is the information contained in the Access-Control-Allow-Methods and Access-Control-Allow-Headers headers) can be cached.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Max-Age\>

##### Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy

Section titled “Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The HTTP Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy (COEP) response header configures embedding cross-origin resources into the document.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy\>

##### Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy

Section titled “Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The HTTP Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy (COOP) response header allows you to ensure a top-level document does not share a browsing context group with cross-origin documents. COOP will process-isolate your document and potential attackers can’t access your global object if they were to open it in a popup, preventing a set of cross-origin attacks dubbed XS-Leaks.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy\>

##### Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy

Section titled “Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The HTTP Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy response header conveys a desire that the browser blocks no-cors cross-origin/cross-site requests to the given resource.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy\>

##### Permissions-Policy

Section titled “Permissions-Policy”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The HTTP Permissions-Policy header provides a mechanism to allow and deny the use of browser features in a document or within any &lt;iframe&gt; elements in the document.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy\>

##### Service-Worker-Allowed

Section titled “Service-Worker-Allowed”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The HTTP Service-Worker-Allowed response header is used to broaden the path restriction for a service worker’s default scope.

By default, the scope for a service worker registration is the directory where the service worker script is located. For example, if the script `sw.js` is located in `/js/sw.js`, it can only control URLs under `/js/` by default. Servers can use the `Service-Worker-Allowed` header to allow a service worker to control URLs outside of its own directory.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Service-Worker-Allowed\>

##### Tauri-Custom-Header

Section titled “Tauri-Custom-Header”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

A custom header field Tauri-Custom-Header, don’t use it. Remember to set Access-Control-Expose-Headers accordingly

**NOT INTENDED FOR PRODUCTION USE**

##### Timing-Allow-Origin

Section titled “Timing-Allow-Origin”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The Timing-Allow-Origin response header specifies origins that are allowed to see values of attributes retrieved via features of the Resource Timing API, which would otherwise be reported as zero due to cross-origin restrictions.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Timing-Allow-Origin\>

##### X-Content-Type-Options

Section titled “X-Content-Type-Options”

`HeaderSource` | `null`

The X-Content-Type-Options response HTTP header is a marker used by the server to indicate that the MIME types advertised in the Content-Type headers should be followed and not be changed. The header allows you to avoid MIME type sniffing by saying that the MIME types are deliberately configured.

See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/X-Content-Type-Options\>

### HeaderSource

Section titled “HeaderSource”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` string version of the header Value
*   `string`\[\] list version of the header value. Item are joined by ”,” for the real header value
*   (Rust struct | Json | JavaScript Object) equivalent of the header value. Items are composed from: key + space + value. Item are then joined by ”;” for the real header value **Allows additional properties**: `string`

definition of a header source

The header value to a header name

### HookCommand

Section titled “HookCommand”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` Run the given script with the default options.
*   Run the given script with custom options. **Object Properties**: - cwd - script (required) ##### cwd `string` | `null` The current working directory. ##### script `string` The script to execute.

Describes a shell command to be executed when a CLI hook is triggered.

### Identifier

Section titled “Identifier”

`string`

### IosConfig

Section titled “IosConfig”

General configuration for the iOS target.

**Object Properties**:

*   bundleVersion
*   developmentTeam
*   frameworks
*   minimumSystemVersion
*   template

##### bundleVersion

Section titled “bundleVersion”

`string` | `null`

The version of the build that identifies an iteration of the bundle.

Translates to the bundle’s CFBundleVersion property.

##### developmentTeam

Section titled “developmentTeam”

`string` | `null`

The development team. This value is required for iOS development because code signing is enforced. The `APPLE_DEVELOPMENT_TEAM` environment variable can be set to overwrite it.

##### frameworks

Section titled “frameworks”

`string`\[\] | `null`

A list of strings indicating any iOS frameworks that need to be bundled with the application.

Note that you need to recreate the iOS project for the changes to be applied.

##### minimumSystemVersion

Section titled “minimumSystemVersion”

`string`

A version string indicating the minimum iOS version that the bundled application supports. Defaults to `13.0`.

Maps to the IPHONEOS\_DEPLOYMENT\_TARGET value.

**Default**: `"14.0"`

##### template

Section titled “template”

`string` | `null`

A custom XcodeGen project.yml template to use.

### LinuxConfig

Section titled “LinuxConfig”

Configuration for Linux bundles.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#linuxconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   appimage
*   deb
*   rpm

##### appimage

Section titled “appimage”

`AppImageConfig`

Configuration for the AppImage bundle.

Default

```
{  "bundleMediaFramework": false,  "files": {}}
```

##### deb

Section titled “deb”

`DebConfig`

Configuration for the Debian bundle.

Default

```
{  "files": {}}
```

##### rpm

Section titled “rpm”

`RpmConfig`

Configuration for the RPM bundle.

Default

```
{  "epoch": 0,  "files": {},  "release": "1"}
```

### LogicalPosition

Section titled “LogicalPosition”

Position coordinates struct.

**Object Properties**:

*   x (required)
*   y (required)

##### x

Section titled “x”

`number` formatted as `double`

X coordinate.

##### y

Section titled “y”

`number` formatted as `double`

Y coordinate.

### MacConfig

Section titled “MacConfig”

Configuration for the macOS bundles.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#macconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   bundleName
*   bundleVersion
*   dmg
*   entitlements
*   exceptionDomain
*   files
*   frameworks
*   hardenedRuntime
*   minimumSystemVersion
*   providerShortName
*   signingIdentity

##### bundleName

Section titled “bundleName”

`string` | `null`

The name of the builder that built the bundle.

Translates to the bundle’s CFBundleName property.

If not set, defaults to the package’s product name.

##### bundleVersion

Section titled “bundleVersion”

`string` | `null`

The version of the build that identifies an iteration of the bundle.

Translates to the bundle’s CFBundleVersion property.

##### dmg

Section titled “dmg”

`DmgConfig`

DMG-specific settings.

Default

```
{  "appPosition": {    "x": 180,    "y": 170  },  "applicationFolderPosition": {    "x": 480,    "y": 170  },  "windowSize": {    "height": 400,    "width": 660  }}
```

##### entitlements

Section titled “entitlements”

`string` | `null`

Path to the entitlements file.

##### exceptionDomain

Section titled “exceptionDomain”

`string` | `null`

Allows your application to communicate with the outside world. It should be a lowercase, without port and protocol domain name.

##### files

Section titled “files”

The files to include in the application relative to the Contents directory.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

##### frameworks

Section titled “frameworks”

`string`\[\] | `null`

A list of strings indicating any macOS X frameworks that need to be bundled with the application.

If a name is used, “.framework” must be omitted and it will look for standard install locations. You may also use a path to a specific framework.

##### hardenedRuntime

Section titled “hardenedRuntime”

`boolean`

Whether the codesign should enable hardened runtime (for executables) or not.

**Default**: `true`

##### minimumSystemVersion

Section titled “minimumSystemVersion”

`string` | `null`

A version string indicating the minimum macOS X version that the bundled application supports. Defaults to `10.13`.

Setting it to `null` completely removes the `LSMinimumSystemVersion` field on the bundle’s `Info.plist` and the `MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET` environment variable.

Ignored in `tauri dev`.

An empty string is considered an invalid value so the default value is used.

**Default**: `"10.13"`

##### providerShortName

Section titled “providerShortName”

`string` | `null`

Provider short name for notarization.

##### signingIdentity

Section titled “signingIdentity”

`string` | `null`

Identity to use for code signing.

### NsisCompression

Section titled “NsisCompression”

**One of the following**:

*   `"zlib"` ZLIB uses the deflate algorithm, it is a quick and simple method. With the default compression level it uses about 300 KB of memory.
*   `"bzip2"` BZIP2 usually gives better compression ratios than ZLIB, but it is a bit slower and uses more memory. With the default compression level it uses about 4 MB of memory.
*   `"lzma"` LZMA (default) is a new compression method that gives very good compression ratios. The decompression speed is high (10-20 MB/s on a 2 GHz CPU), the compression speed is lower. The memory size that will be used for decompression is the dictionary size plus a few KBs, the default is 8 MB.
*   `"none"` Disable compression

Compression algorithms used in the NSIS installer.

See <https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Reference/SetCompressor\>

### NsisConfig

Section titled “NsisConfig”

Configuration for the Installer bundle using NSIS.

**Object Properties**:

*   compression
*   customLanguageFiles
*   displayLanguageSelector
*   headerImage
*   installerHooks
*   installerIcon
*   installMode
*   languages
*   minimumWebview2Version
*   sidebarImage
*   startMenuFolder
*   template

##### compression

Section titled “compression”

`NsisCompression`

Set the compression algorithm used to compress files in the installer.

See <https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Reference/SetCompressor\>

**Default**: `"lzma"`

##### customLanguageFiles

Section titled “customLanguageFiles”

| `null`

A key-value pair where the key is the language and the value is the path to a custom `.nsh` file that holds the translated text for tauri’s custom messages.

See <https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/dev/crates/tauri-bundler/src/bundle/windows/nsis/languages/English.nsh\> for an example `.nsh` file.

**Note**: the key must be a valid NSIS language and it must be added to \[`NsisConfig`\] languages array,

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

##### displayLanguageSelector

Section titled “displayLanguageSelector”

`boolean`

Whether to display a language selector dialog before the installer and uninstaller windows are rendered or not. By default the OS language is selected, with a fallback to the first language in the `languages` array.

##### headerImage

Section titled “headerImage”

`string` | `null`

The path to a bitmap file to display on the header of installers pages.

The recommended dimensions are 150px x 57px.

##### installerHooks

Section titled “installerHooks”

`string` | `null`

A path to a `.nsh` file that contains special NSIS macros to be hooked into the main installer.nsi script.

Supported hooks are:

*   `NSIS_HOOK_PREINSTALL`: This hook runs before copying files, setting registry key values and creating shortcuts.
*   `NSIS_HOOK_POSTINSTALL`: This hook runs after the installer has finished copying all files, setting the registry keys and created shortcuts.
*   `NSIS_HOOK_PREUNINSTALL`: This hook runs before removing any files, registry keys and shortcuts.
*   `NSIS_HOOK_POSTUNINSTALL`: This hook runs after files, registry keys and shortcuts have been removed.

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

```
!macro NSIS_HOOK_PREINSTALL  MessageBox MB_OK "PreInstall"!macroend
!macro NSIS_HOOK_POSTINSTALL  MessageBox MB_OK "PostInstall"!macroend
!macro NSIS_HOOK_PREUNINSTALL  MessageBox MB_OK "PreUnInstall"!macroend
!macro NSIS_HOOK_POSTUNINSTALL  MessageBox MB_OK "PostUninstall"!macroend
```

##### installerIcon

Section titled “installerIcon”

`string` | `null`

The path to an icon file used as the installer icon.

##### installMode

Section titled “installMode”

`NSISInstallerMode`

Whether the installation will be for all users or just the current user.

**Default**: `"currentUser"`

##### languages

Section titled “languages”

`string`\[\] | `null`

A list of installer languages. By default the OS language is used. If the OS language is not in the list of languages, the first language will be used. To allow the user to select the language, set `display_language_selector` to `true`.

See <https://github.com/kichik/nsis/tree/9465c08046f00ccb6eda985abbdbf52c275c6c4d/Contrib/Language%20files\> for the complete list of languages.

##### minimumWebview2Version

Section titled “minimumWebview2Version”

`string` | `null`

Try to ensure that the WebView2 version is equal to or newer than this version, if the user’s WebView2 is older than this version, the installer will try to trigger a WebView2 update.

##### sidebarImage

Section titled “sidebarImage”

`string` | `null`

The path to a bitmap file for the Welcome page and the Finish page.

The recommended dimensions are 164px x 314px.

##### startMenuFolder

Section titled “startMenuFolder”

`string` | `null`

Set the folder name for the start menu shortcut.

Use this option if you have multiple apps and wish to group their shortcuts under one folder or if you generally prefer to set your shortcut inside a folder.

Examples:

*   `AwesomePublisher`, shortcut will be placed in `%AppData%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\AwesomePublisher\&lt;your-app&gt;.lnk`
*   If unset, shortcut will be placed in `%AppData%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\&lt;your-app&gt;.lnk`

##### template

Section titled “template”

`string` | `null`

A custom .nsi template to use.

### NSISInstallerMode

Section titled “NSISInstallerMode”

**One of the following**:

*   `"currentUser"` Default mode for the installer. Install the app by default in a directory that doesn’t require Administrator access. Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKCU` registry path.
*   `"perMachine"` Install the app by default in the `Program Files` folder directory requires Administrator access for the installation. Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKLM` registry path.
*   `"both"` Combines both modes and allows the user to choose at install time whether to install for the current user or per machine. Note that this mode will require Administrator access even if the user wants to install it for the current user only. Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKLM` or `HKCU` registry path based on the user’s choice.

Install Modes for the NSIS installer.

### Number

Section titled “Number”

**Any of the following**:

*   `integer` formatted as `int64` Represents an \[`i64`\].
*   `number` formatted as `double` Represents a \[`f64`\].

A valid ACL number.

### PatternKind

Section titled “PatternKind”

**One of the following**:

*   Brownfield pattern. **Object Properties**: - use (required) ##### use `"brownfield"`
*   Isolation pattern. Recommended for security purposes. **Object Properties**: - options (required) - use (required) ##### options **Object Properties**: - dir (required) ###### dir `string` The dir containing the index.html file that contains the secure isolation application. ##### use `"isolation"`

The application pattern.

### PermissionEntry

Section titled “PermissionEntry”

**Any of the following**:

*   `Identifier` Reference a permission or permission set by identifier.
*   Reference a permission or permission set by identifier and extends its scope. **Object Properties**: - allow - deny - identifier (required) ##### allow `Value`\[\] | `null` Data that defines what is allowed by the scope. ##### deny `Value`\[\] | `null` Data that defines what is denied by the scope. This should be prioritized by validation logic. ##### identifier `Identifier` Identifier of the permission or permission set.

An entry for a permission value in a \[`Capability`\] can be either a raw permission \[`Identifier`\] or an object that references a permission and extends its scope.

### PluginConfig

Section titled “PluginConfig”

The plugin configs holds a HashMap mapping a plugin name to its configuration object.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#pluginconfig\>

**Allows additional properties**: `true`

### Position

Section titled “Position”

Position coordinates struct.

**Object Properties**:

*   x (required)
*   y (required)

##### x

Section titled “x”

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

X coordinate.

##### y

Section titled “y”

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

Y coordinate.

### PreventOverflowConfig

Section titled “PreventOverflowConfig”

**Any of the following**:

*   `boolean` Enable prevent overflow or not
*   `PreventOverflowMargin` Enable prevent overflow with a margin so that the window’s size + this margin won’t overflow the workarea

Prevent overflow with a margin

### PreventOverflowMargin

Section titled “PreventOverflowMargin”

Enable prevent overflow with a margin so that the window’s size + this margin won’t overflow the workarea

**Object Properties**:

*   height (required)
*   width (required)

##### height

Section titled “height”

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

Vertical margin in physical unit

##### width

Section titled “width”

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

Horizontal margin in physical unit

### RpmCompression

Section titled “RpmCompression”

**One of the following**:

*   Gzip compression **Object Properties**: - level (required) - type (required) ##### level `integer` formatted as `uint32` Gzip compression level ##### type `"gzip"`
*   Zstd compression **Object Properties**: - level (required) - type (required) ##### level `integer` formatted as `int32` Zstd compression level ##### type `"zstd"`
*   Xz compression **Object Properties**: - level (required) - type (required) ##### level `integer` formatted as `uint32` Xz compression level ##### type `"xz"`
*   Bzip2 compression **Object Properties**: - level (required) - type (required) ##### level `integer` formatted as `uint32` Bzip2 compression level ##### type `"bzip2"`
*   Disable compression **Object Properties**: - type (required) ##### type `"none"`

Compression algorithms used when bundling RPM packages.

### RpmConfig

Section titled “RpmConfig”

Configuration for RPM bundles.

**Object Properties**:

*   compression
*   conflicts
*   depends
*   desktopTemplate
*   epoch
*   files
*   obsoletes
*   postInstallScript
*   postRemoveScript
*   preInstallScript
*   preRemoveScript
*   provides
*   recommends
*   release

##### compression

Section titled “compression”

`RpmCompression` | `null`

Compression algorithm and level. Defaults to `Gzip` with level 6.

##### conflicts

Section titled “conflicts”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of RPM dependencies your application conflicts with. They must not be present in order for the package to be installed.

##### depends

Section titled “depends”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of RPM dependencies your application relies on.

##### desktopTemplate

Section titled “desktopTemplate”

`string` | `null`

Path to a custom desktop file Handlebars template.

Available variables: `categories`, `comment` (optional), `exec`, `icon` and `name`.

##### epoch

Section titled “epoch”

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

The RPM epoch.

##### files

Section titled “files”

The files to include on the package.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

##### obsoletes

Section titled “obsoletes”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of RPM dependencies your application supersedes - if this package is installed, packages listed as “obsoletes” will be automatically removed (if they are present).

##### postInstallScript

Section titled “postInstallScript”

`string` | `null`

Path to script that will be executed after the package is unpacked. See <http://ftp.rpm.org/max-rpm/s1-rpm-inside-scripts.html\>

##### postRemoveScript

Section titled “postRemoveScript”

`string` | `null`

Path to script that will be executed after the package is removed. See <http://ftp.rpm.org/max-rpm/s1-rpm-inside-scripts.html\>

##### preInstallScript

Section titled “preInstallScript”

`string` | `null`

Path to script that will be executed before the package is unpacked. See <http://ftp.rpm.org/max-rpm/s1-rpm-inside-scripts.html\>

##### preRemoveScript

Section titled “preRemoveScript”

`string` | `null`

Path to script that will be executed before the package is removed. See <http://ftp.rpm.org/max-rpm/s1-rpm-inside-scripts.html\>

##### provides

Section titled “provides”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of RPM dependencies your application provides.

##### recommends

Section titled “recommends”

`string`\[\] | `null`

The list of RPM dependencies your application recommends.

##### release

Section titled “release”

`string`

The RPM release tag.

**Default**: `"1"`

### RunnerConfig

Section titled “RunnerConfig”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` A string specifying the binary to run.
*   An object with advanced configuration options. **Object Properties**: - args - cmd (required) - cwd ##### args `string`\[\] | `null` Arguments to pass to the command. ##### cmd `string` The binary to run. ##### cwd `string` | `null` The current working directory to run the command from.

The runner configuration.

### ScrollBarStyle

Section titled “ScrollBarStyle”

**One of the following**:

*   `"default"` The scrollbar style to use in the webview.
*   `"fluentOverlay"` Fluent UI style overlay scrollbars. **Windows Only** Requires WebView2 Runtime version 125.0.2535.41 or higher, does nothing on older versions, see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/release-notes/?tabs=dotnetcsharp#10253541

The scrollbar style to use in the webview.

##### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **Windows**: This option must be given the same value for all webviews that target the same data directory.

### SecurityConfig

Section titled “SecurityConfig”

Security configuration.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#securityconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   assetProtocol
*   capabilities
*   csp
*   dangerousDisableAssetCspModification
*   devCsp
*   freezePrototype
*   headers
*   pattern

##### assetProtocol

Section titled “assetProtocol”

`AssetProtocolConfig`

Custom protocol config.

Default

```
{  "enable": false,  "scope": []}
```

##### capabilities

Section titled “capabilities”

`CapabilityEntry`\[\]

List of capabilities that are enabled on the application.

By default (not set or empty list), all capability files from `./capabilities/` are included, by setting values in this entry, you have fine grained control over which capabilities are included

You can either reference a capability file defined in `./capabilities/` with its identifier or inline a \[`Capability`\]

###### Example

Section titled “Example”

```
{  "app": {    "capabilities": [      "main-window",      {        "identifier": "drag-window",        "permissions": ["core:window:allow-start-dragging"]      }    ]  }}
```

**Default**: `[]`

##### csp

Section titled “csp”

`Csp` | `null`

The Content Security Policy that will be injected on all HTML files on the built application. If `dev_csp` is not specified, this value is also injected on dev.

This is a really important part of the configuration since it helps you ensure your WebView is secured. See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP\>.

##### dangerousDisableAssetCspModification

Section titled “dangerousDisableAssetCspModification”

`DisabledCspModificationKind`

Disables the Tauri-injected CSP sources.

At compile time, Tauri parses all the frontend assets and changes the Content-Security-Policy to only allow loading of your own scripts and styles by injecting nonce and hash sources. This stricts your CSP, which may introduce issues when using along with other flexing sources.

This configuration option allows both a boolean and a list of strings as value. A boolean instructs Tauri to disable the injection for all CSP injections, and a list of strings indicates the CSP directives that Tauri cannot inject.

**WARNING:** Only disable this if you know what you are doing and have properly configured the CSP. Your application might be vulnerable to XSS attacks without this Tauri protection.

##### devCsp

Section titled “devCsp”

`Csp` | `null`

The Content Security Policy that will be injected on all HTML files on development.

This is a really important part of the configuration since it helps you ensure your WebView is secured. See <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP\>.

##### freezePrototype

Section titled “freezePrototype”

`boolean`

Freeze the `Object.prototype` when using the custom protocol.

##### headers

Section titled “headers”

`HeaderConfig` | `null`

The headers, which are added to every http response from tauri to the web view This doesn’t include IPC Messages and error responses

##### pattern

Section titled “pattern”

`PatternKind`

The pattern to use.

Default

```
{  "use": "brownfield"}
```

### Size

Section titled “Size”

Size of the window.

**Object Properties**:

*   height (required)
*   width (required)

##### height

Section titled “height”

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

Height of the window.

##### width

Section titled “width”

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

Width of the window.

### Target

Section titled “Target”

**One of the following**:

*   `"macOS"` MacOS.
*   `"windows"` Windows.
*   `"linux"` Linux.
*   `"android"` Android.
*   `"iOS"` iOS.

Platform target.

### Theme

Section titled “Theme”

**One of the following**:

*   `"Light"` Light theme.
*   `"Dark"` Dark theme.

System theme.

### TitleBarStyle

Section titled “TitleBarStyle”

**One of the following**:

*   `"Visible"` A normal title bar.
*   `"Transparent"` Makes the title bar transparent, so the window background color is shown instead. Useful if you don’t need to have actual HTML under the title bar. This lets you avoid the caveats of using `TitleBarStyle::Overlay`. Will be more useful when Tauri lets you set a custom window background color.
*   `"Overlay"` Shows the title bar as a transparent overlay over the window’s content. Keep in mind: - The height of the title bar is different on different OS versions, which can lead to window the controls and title not being where you don’t expect. - You need to define a custom drag region to make your window draggable, however due to a limitation you can’t drag the window when it’s not in focus <https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/4316\>. - The color of the window title depends on the system theme.

How the window title bar should be displayed on macOS.

### TrayIconConfig

Section titled “TrayIconConfig”

Configuration for application tray icon.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#trayiconconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   iconAsTemplate
*   iconPath (required)
*   id
*   menuOnLeftClick
*   showMenuOnLeftClick
*   title
*   tooltip

##### iconAsTemplate

Section titled “iconAsTemplate”

`boolean`

A Boolean value that determines whether the image represents a template image on macOS.

##### iconPath

Section titled “iconPath”

`string`

Path to the default icon to use for the tray icon.

Note: this stores the image in raw pixels to the final binary, so keep the icon size (width and height) small or else it’s going to bloat your final executable

##### id

Section titled “id”

`string` | `null`

Set an id for this tray icon so you can reference it later, defaults to `main`.

##### menuOnLeftClick

Section titled “menuOnLeftClick”

`boolean`

A Boolean value that determines whether the menu should appear when the tray icon receives a left click.

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **Linux**: Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### showMenuOnLeftClick

Section titled “showMenuOnLeftClick”

`boolean`

A Boolean value that determines whether the menu should appear when the tray icon receives a left click.

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **Linux**: Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### title

Section titled “title”

`string` | `null`

Title for MacOS tray

##### tooltip

Section titled “tooltip”

`string` | `null`

Tray icon tooltip on Windows and macOS

### Updater

Section titled “Updater”

**Any of the following**:

*   `V1Compatible` Generates legacy zipped v1 compatible updaters
*   `boolean` Produce updaters and their signatures or not

Updater type

### V1Compatible

Section titled “V1Compatible”

`"v1Compatible"`,Generates legacy zipped v1 compatible updaters

Generates legacy zipped v1 compatible updaters

### Value

Section titled “Value”

**Any of the following**:

*   `null` Represents a null JSON value.
*   `boolean` Represents a \[`bool`\].
*   `Number` Represents a valid ACL \[`Number`\].
*   `string` Represents a \[`String`\].
*   `Value`\[\] Represents a list of other \[`Value`\]s.
*   Represents a map of \[`String`\] keys to \[`Value`\]s. **Allows additional properties**: `Value`

All supported ACL values.

### WebviewInstallMode

Section titled “WebviewInstallMode”

**One of the following**:

*   Do not install the Webview2 as part of the Windows Installer. **Object Properties**: - type (required) ##### type `"skip"`
*   Download the bootstrapper and run it. Requires an internet connection. Results in a smaller installer size, but is not recommended on Windows 7. **Object Properties**: - silent - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the bootstrapper in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"downloadBootstrapper"`
*   Embed the bootstrapper and run it. Requires an internet connection. Increases the installer size by around 1.8MB, but offers better support on Windows 7. **Object Properties**: - silent - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the bootstrapper in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"embedBootstrapper"`
*   Embed the offline installer and run it. Does not require an internet connection. Increases the installer size by around 127MB. **Object Properties**: - silent - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the installer in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"offlineInstaller"`
*   Embed a fixed webview2 version and use it at runtime. Increases the installer size by around 180MB. **Object Properties**: - path (required) - type (required) ##### path `string` The path to the fixed runtime to use. The fixed version can be downloaded on the official website. The `.cab` file must be extracted to a folder and this folder path must be defined on this field. ##### type `"fixedRuntime"`

Install modes for the Webview2 runtime. Note that for the updater bundle \[`Self::DownloadBootstrapper`\] is used.

For more information see <https://v2.tauri.app/distribute/windows-installer/#webview2-installation-options\>.

### WebviewUrl

Section titled “WebviewUrl”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` formatted as `uri` An external URL. Must use either the `http` or `https` schemes.
*   `string` The path portion of an app URL. For instance, to load `tauri://localhost/users/john`, you can simply provide `users/john` in this configuration.
*   `string` formatted as `uri` A custom protocol url, for example, `doom://index.html`

An URL to open on a Tauri webview window.

### WindowConfig

Section titled “WindowConfig”

The window configuration object.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#windowconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   acceptFirstMouse
*   additionalBrowserArgs
*   allowLinkPreview
*   alwaysOnBottom
*   alwaysOnTop
*   backgroundColor
*   backgroundThrottling
*   browserExtensionsEnabled
*   center
*   closable
*   contentProtected
*   create
*   dataDirectory
*   dataStoreIdentifier
*   decorations
*   devtools
*   disableInputAccessoryView
*   dragDropEnabled
*   focus
*   focusable
*   fullscreen
*   height
*   hiddenTitle
*   incognito
*   javascriptDisabled
*   label
*   maxHeight
*   maximizable
*   maximized
*   maxWidth
*   minHeight
*   minimizable
*   minWidth
*   parent
*   preventOverflow
*   proxyUrl
*   resizable
*   scrollBarStyle
*   shadow
*   skipTaskbar
*   tabbingIdentifier
*   theme
*   title
*   titleBarStyle
*   trafficLightPosition
*   transparent
*   url
*   useHttpsScheme
*   userAgent
*   visible
*   visibleOnAllWorkspaces
*   width
*   windowClassname
*   windowEffects
*   x
*   y
*   zoomHotkeysEnabled

##### acceptFirstMouse

Section titled “acceptFirstMouse”

`boolean`

Whether clicking an inactive window also clicks through to the webview on macOS.

##### additionalBrowserArgs

Section titled “additionalBrowserArgs”

`string` | `null`

Defines additional browser arguments on Windows. By default wry passes `--disable-features=msWebOOUI,msPdfOOUI,msSmartScreenProtection` so if you use this method, you also need to disable these components by yourself if you want.

##### allowLinkPreview

Section titled “allowLinkPreview”

`boolean`

on macOS and iOS there is a link preview on long pressing links, this is enabled by default. see https://docs.rs/objc2-web-kit/latest/objc2\_web\_kit/struct.WKWebView.html#method.allowsLinkPreview

**Default**: `true`

##### alwaysOnBottom

Section titled “alwaysOnBottom”

`boolean`

Whether the window should always be below other windows.

##### alwaysOnTop

Section titled “alwaysOnTop”

`boolean`

Whether the window should always be on top of other windows.

##### backgroundColor

Section titled “backgroundColor”

`Color` | `null`

Set the window and webview background color.

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **Windows**: alpha channel is ignored for the window layer.
*   **Windows**: On Windows 7, alpha channel is ignored for the webview layer.
*   **Windows**: On Windows 8 and newer, if alpha channel is not `0`, it will be ignored for the webview layer.

##### backgroundThrottling

Section titled “backgroundThrottling”

`BackgroundThrottlingPolicy` | `null`

Change the default background throttling behaviour.

By default, browsers use a suspend policy that will throttle timers and even unload the whole tab (view) to free resources after roughly 5 minutes when a view became minimized or hidden. This will pause all tasks until the documents visibility state changes back from hidden to visible by bringing the view back to the foreground.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **Linux / Windows / Android**: Unsupported. Workarounds like a pending WebLock transaction might suffice.
*   **iOS**: Supported since version 17.0+.
*   **macOS**: Supported since version 14.0+.

see https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/5250#issuecomment-2569380578

##### browserExtensionsEnabled

Section titled “browserExtensionsEnabled”

`boolean`

Whether browser extensions can be installed for the webview process

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **Windows**: Enables the WebView2 environment’s `AreBrowserExtensionsEnabled`
*   **MacOS / Linux / iOS / Android** - Unsupported.

##### center

Section titled “center”

`boolean`

Whether or not the window starts centered or not.

##### closable

Section titled “closable”

`boolean`

Whether the window’s native close button is enabled or not.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **Linux:** “GTK+ will do its best to convince the window manager not to show a close button. Depending on the system, this function may not have any effect when called on a window that is already visible”
*   **iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### contentProtected

Section titled “contentProtected”

`boolean`

Prevents the window contents from being captured by other apps.

##### create

Section titled “create”

`boolean`

Whether Tauri should create this window at app startup or not.

When this is set to `false` you must manually grab the config object via `app.config().app.windows` and create it with `WebviewWindowBuilder::from_config`.

###### Example:

Section titled “Example:”

```
tauri::Builder::default()  .setup(|app| {    tauri::WebviewWindowBuilder::from_config(app.handle(), app.config().app.windows[0])?.build()?;    Ok(())  });
```

**Default**: `true`

##### dataDirectory

Section titled “dataDirectory”

`string` | `null`

Set a custom path for the webview’s data directory (localStorage, cache, etc.) **relative to \[`appDataDir()`\]/${label}**.

To set absolute paths, use `WebviewWindowBuilder::data_directory`

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **Windows**: WebViews with different values for settings like `additionalBrowserArgs`, `browserExtensionsEnabled` or `scrollBarStyle` must have different data directories.
*   **macOS / iOS**: Unsupported, use `dataStoreIdentifier` instead.
*   **Android**: Unsupported.

##### dataStoreIdentifier

Section titled “dataStoreIdentifier”

`integer` formatted as `uint8`\[\] | `null` maximum of `16` items, minimum of `16` items

Initialize the WebView with a custom data store identifier. This can be seen as a replacement for `dataDirectory` which is unavailable in WKWebView. See https://developer.apple.com/documentation/webkit/wkwebsitedatastore/init(foridentifier:)?language=objc

The array must contain 16 u8 numbers.

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **iOS**: Supported since version 17.0+.
*   **macOS**: Supported since version 14.0+.
*   **Windows / Linux / Android**: Unsupported.

##### decorations

Section titled “decorations”

`boolean`

Whether the window should have borders and bars.

**Default**: `true`

##### devtools

Section titled “devtools”

`boolean` | `null`

Enable web inspector which is usually called browser devtools. Enabled by default.

This API works in **debug** builds, but requires `devtools` feature flag to enable it in **release** builds.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   macOS: This will call private functions on **macOS**.
*   Android: Open `chrome://inspect/#devices` in Chrome to get the devtools window. Wry’s `WebView` devtools API isn’t supported on Android.
*   iOS: Open Safari > Develop > \[Your Device Name\] > \[Your WebView\] to get the devtools window.

##### disableInputAccessoryView

Section titled “disableInputAccessoryView”

`boolean`

Allows disabling the input accessory view on iOS.

The accessory view is the view that appears above the keyboard when a text input element is focused. It usually displays a view with “Done”, “Next” buttons.

##### dragDropEnabled

Section titled “dragDropEnabled”

`boolean`

Whether the drag and drop is enabled or not on the webview. By default it is enabled.

Disabling it is required to use HTML5 drag and drop on the frontend on Windows.

**Default**: `true`

##### focus

Section titled “focus”

`boolean`

Whether the window will be initially focused or not.

**Default**: `true`

##### focusable

Section titled “focusable”

`boolean`

Whether the window will be focusable or not.

**Default**: `true`

##### fullscreen

Section titled “fullscreen”

`boolean`

Whether the window starts as fullscreen or not.

##### height

Section titled “height”

`number` formatted as `double`

The window height.

**Default**: `600`

##### hiddenTitle

Section titled “hiddenTitle”

`boolean`

If `true`, sets the window title to be hidden on macOS.

##### incognito

Section titled “incognito”

`boolean`

Whether or not the webview should be launched in incognito mode.

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **Android**: Unsupported.

##### javascriptDisabled

Section titled “javascriptDisabled”

`boolean`

Whether we should disable JavaScript code execution on the webview or not.

##### label

Section titled “label”

`string`

The window identifier. It must be alphanumeric.

**Default**: `"main"`

##### maxHeight

Section titled “maxHeight”

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The max window height.

##### maximizable

Section titled “maximizable”

`boolean`

Whether the window’s native maximize button is enabled or not. If resizable is set to false, this setting is ignored.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **macOS:** Disables the “zoom” button in the window titlebar, which is also used to enter fullscreen mode.
*   **Linux / iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### maximized

Section titled “maximized”

`boolean`

Whether the window is maximized or not.

##### maxWidth

Section titled “maxWidth”

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The max window width.

##### minHeight

Section titled “minHeight”

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The min window height.

##### minimizable

Section titled “minimizable”

`boolean`

Whether the window’s native minimize button is enabled or not.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **Linux / iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### minWidth

Section titled “minWidth”

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The min window width.

##### parent

Section titled “parent”

`string` | `null`

Sets the window associated with this label to be the parent of the window to be created.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **Windows**: This sets the passed parent as an owner window to the window to be created. From MSDN owned windows docs:
*   An owned window is always above its owner in the z-order.
*   The system automatically destroys an owned window when its owner is destroyed.
*   An owned window is hidden when its owner is minimized.
*   **Linux**: This makes the new window transient for parent, see <https://docs.gtk.org/gtk3/method.Window.set\_transient\_for.html\>
*   **macOS**: This adds the window as a child of parent, see <https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nswindow/1419152-addchildwindow?language=objc\>

##### preventOverflow

Section titled “preventOverflow”

`PreventOverflowConfig` | `null`

Whether or not to prevent the window from overflowing the workarea

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

##### proxyUrl

Section titled “proxyUrl”

`string` | `null` formatted as `uri`

The proxy URL for the WebView for all network requests.

Must be either a `http://` or a `socks5://` URL.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **macOS**: Requires the `macos-proxy` feature flag and only compiles for macOS 14+.

##### resizable

Section titled “resizable”

`boolean`

Whether the window is resizable or not. When resizable is set to false, native window’s maximize button is automatically disabled.

**Default**: `true`

##### scrollBarStyle

Section titled “scrollBarStyle”

`ScrollBarStyle`

Specifies the native scrollbar style to use with the webview. CSS styles that modify the scrollbar are applied on top of the native appearance configured here.

Defaults to `default`, which is the browser default.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **Windows**:
*   `fluentOverlay` requires WebView2 Runtime version 125.0.2535.41 or higher, and does nothing on older versions.
*   This option must be given the same value for all webviews that target the same data directory.
*   **Linux / Android / iOS / macOS**: Unsupported. Only supports `Default` and performs no operation.

**Default**: `"default"`

##### shadow

Section titled “shadow”

`boolean`

Whether or not the window has shadow.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **Windows:**
*   `false` has no effect on decorated window, shadow are always ON.
*   `true` will make undecorated window have a 1px white border, and on Windows 11, it will have a rounded corners.
*   **Linux:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### skipTaskbar

Section titled “skipTaskbar”

`boolean`

If `true`, hides the window icon from the taskbar on Windows and Linux.

##### tabbingIdentifier

Section titled “tabbingIdentifier”

`string` | `null`

Defines the window tabbing identifier for macOS.

Windows with matching tabbing identifiers will be grouped together. If the tabbing identifier is not set, automatic tabbing will be disabled.

##### theme

Section titled “theme”

`Theme` | `null`

The initial window theme. Defaults to the system theme. Only implemented on Windows and macOS 10.14+.

##### title

Section titled “title”

`string`

The window title.

**Default**: `"Tauri App"`

##### titleBarStyle

Section titled “titleBarStyle”

`TitleBarStyle`

The style of the macOS title bar.

**Default**: `"Visible"`

##### trafficLightPosition

Section titled “trafficLightPosition”

`LogicalPosition` | `null`

The position of the window controls on macOS.

Requires titleBarStyle: Overlay and decorations: true.

##### transparent

Section titled “transparent”

`boolean`

Whether the window is transparent or not.

Note that on `macOS` this requires the `macos-private-api` feature flag, enabled under `tauri &gt; macOSPrivateApi`. WARNING: Using private APIs on `macOS` prevents your application from being accepted to the `App Store`.

##### url

Section titled “url”

`WebviewUrl`

The window webview URL.

**Default**: `"index.html"`

##### useHttpsScheme

Section titled “useHttpsScheme”

`boolean`

Sets whether the custom protocols should use `https://&lt;scheme&gt;.localhost` instead of the default `http://&lt;scheme&gt;.localhost` on Windows and Android. Defaults to `false`.

###### Note

Section titled “Note”

Using a `https` scheme will NOT allow mixed content when trying to fetch `http` endpoints and therefore will not match the behavior of the `&lt;scheme&gt;://localhost` protocols used on macOS and Linux.

###### Warning

Section titled “Warning”

Changing this value between releases will change the IndexedDB, cookies and localstorage location and your app will not be able to access the old data.

##### userAgent

Section titled “userAgent”

`string` | `null`

The user agent for the webview

##### visible

Section titled “visible”

`boolean`

Whether the window is visible or not.

**Default**: `true`

##### visibleOnAllWorkspaces

Section titled “visibleOnAllWorkspaces”

`boolean`

Whether the window should be visible on all workspaces or virtual desktops.

###### Platform-specific

Section titled “Platform-specific”

*   **Windows / iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

##### width

Section titled “width”

`number` formatted as `double`

The window width.

**Default**: `800`

##### windowClassname

Section titled “windowClassname”

`string` | `null`

The name of the window class created on Windows to create the window. **Windows only**.

##### windowEffects

Section titled “windowEffects”

`WindowEffectsConfig` | `null`

Window effects.

Requires the window to be transparent.

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **Windows**: If using decorations or shadows, you may want to try this workaround <https://github.com/tauri-apps/tao/issues/72#issuecomment-975607891\>
*   **Linux**: Unsupported

##### x

Section titled “x”

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The horizontal position of the window’s top left corner

##### y

Section titled “y”

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The vertical position of the window’s top left corner

##### zoomHotkeysEnabled

Section titled “zoomHotkeysEnabled”

`boolean`

Whether page zooming by hotkeys is enabled

###### Platform-specific:

Section titled “Platform-specific:”

*   **Windows**: Controls WebView2’s `IsZoomControlEnabled` setting.

*   **MacOS / Linux**: Injects a polyfill that zooms in and out with `ctrl/command` + `-/=`, 20% in each step, ranging from 20% to 1000%. Requires `webview:allow-set-webview-zoom` permission

*   **Android / iOS**: Unsupported.

### WindowEffect

Section titled “WindowEffect”

**One of the following**:

*   `"appearanceBased"` A default material appropriate for the view’s effectiveAppearance. **macOS 10.14-**
*   `"light"` **macOS 10.14-**
*   `"dark"` **macOS 10.14-**
*   `"mediumLight"` **macOS 10.14-**
*   `"ultraDark"` **macOS 10.14-**
*   `"titlebar"` **macOS 10.10+**
*   `"selection"` **macOS 10.10+**
*   `"menu"` **macOS 10.11+**
*   `"popover"` **macOS 10.11+**
*   `"sidebar"` **macOS 10.11+**
*   `"headerView"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"sheet"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"windowBackground"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"hudWindow"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"fullScreenUI"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"tooltip"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"contentBackground"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"underWindowBackground"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"underPageBackground"` **macOS 10.14+**
*   `"mica"` Mica effect that matches the system dark perefence **Windows 11 Only**
*   `"micaDark"` Mica effect with dark mode but only if dark mode is enabled on the system **Windows 11 Only**
*   `"micaLight"` Mica effect with light mode **Windows 11 Only**
*   `"tabbed"` Tabbed effect that matches the system dark perefence **Windows 11 Only**
*   `"tabbedDark"` Tabbed effect with dark mode but only if dark mode is enabled on the system **Windows 11 Only**
*   `"tabbedLight"` Tabbed effect with light mode **Windows 11 Only**
*   `"blur"` **Windows 7/10/11(22H1) Only** ##### Notes This effect has bad performance when resizing/dragging the window on Windows 11 build 22621.
*   `"acrylic"` **Windows 10/11 Only** ##### Notes This effect has bad performance when resizing/dragging the window on Windows 10 v1903+ and Windows 11 build 22000.

Platform-specific window effects

### WindowEffectsConfig

Section titled “WindowEffectsConfig”

The window effects configuration object

**Object Properties**:

*   color
*   effects (required)
*   radius
*   state

##### color

Section titled “color”

`Color` | `null`

Window effect color. Affects \[`WindowEffect::Blur`\] and \[`WindowEffect::Acrylic`\] only on Windows 10 v1903+. Doesn’t have any effect on Windows 7 or Windows 11.

##### effects

Section titled “effects”

`WindowEffect`\[\]

List of Window effects to apply to the Window. Conflicting effects will apply the first one and ignore the rest.

##### radius

Section titled “radius”

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

Window effect corner radius **macOS Only**

##### state

Section titled “state”

`WindowEffectState` | `null`

Window effect state **macOS Only**

### WindowEffectState

Section titled “WindowEffectState”

**One of the following**:

*   `"followsWindowActiveState"` Make window effect state follow the window’s active state
*   `"active"` Make window effect state always active
*   `"inactive"` Make window effect state always inactive

Window effect state **macOS only**

<https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsvisualeffectview/state\>

### WindowsConfig

Section titled “WindowsConfig”

Windows bundler configuration.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#windowsconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   allowDowngrades
*   certificateThumbprint
*   digestAlgorithm
*   nsis
*   signCommand
*   timestampUrl
*   tsp
*   webviewInstallMode
*   wix

##### allowDowngrades

Section titled “allowDowngrades”

`boolean`

Validates a second app installation, blocking the user from installing an older version if set to `false`.

For instance, if `1.2.1` is installed, the user won’t be able to install app version `1.2.0` or `1.1.5`.

The default value of this flag is `true`.

**Default**: `true`

##### certificateThumbprint

Section titled “certificateThumbprint”

`string` | `null`

Specifies the SHA1 hash of the signing certificate.

##### digestAlgorithm

Section titled “digestAlgorithm”

`string` | `null`

Specifies the file digest algorithm to use for creating file signatures. Required for code signing. SHA-256 is recommended.

##### nsis

Section titled “nsis”

`NsisConfig` | `null`

Configuration for the installer generated with NSIS.

##### signCommand

Section titled “signCommand”

`CustomSignCommandConfig` | `null`

Specify a custom command to sign the binaries. This command needs to have a `%1` in args which is just a placeholder for the binary path, which we will detect and replace before calling the command.

By Default we use `signtool.exe` which can be found only on Windows so if you are on another platform and want to cross-compile and sign you will need to use another tool like `osslsigncode`.

##### timestampUrl

Section titled “timestampUrl”

`string` | `null`

Server to use during timestamping.

##### tsp

Section titled “tsp”

`boolean`

Whether to use Time-Stamp Protocol (TSP, a.k.a. RFC 3161) for the timestamp server. Your code signing provider may use a TSP timestamp server, like e.g. SSL.com does. If so, enable TSP by setting to true.

##### webviewInstallMode

Section titled “webviewInstallMode”

`WebviewInstallMode`

The installation mode for the Webview2 runtime.

Default

```
{  "silent": true,  "type": "downloadBootstrapper"}
```

##### wix

Section titled “wix”

`WixConfig` | `null`

Configuration for the MSI generated with WiX.

### WixConfig

Section titled “WixConfig”

Configuration for the MSI bundle using WiX.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#wixconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   bannerPath
*   componentGroupRefs
*   componentRefs
*   dialogImagePath
*   enableElevatedUpdateTask
*   featureGroupRefs
*   featureRefs
*   fipsCompliant
*   fragmentPaths
*   language
*   mergeRefs
*   template
*   upgradeCode
*   version

##### bannerPath

Section titled “bannerPath”

`string` | `null`

Path to a bitmap file to use as the installation user interface banner. This bitmap will appear at the top of all but the first page of the installer.

The required dimensions are 493px × 58px.

##### componentGroupRefs

Section titled “componentGroupRefs”

`string`\[\]

The ComponentGroup element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### componentRefs

Section titled “componentRefs”

`string`\[\]

The Component element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### dialogImagePath

Section titled “dialogImagePath”

`string` | `null`

Path to a bitmap file to use on the installation user interface dialogs. It is used on the welcome and completion dialogs.

The required dimensions are 493px × 312px.

##### enableElevatedUpdateTask

Section titled “enableElevatedUpdateTask”

`boolean`

Create an elevated update task within Windows Task Scheduler.

##### featureGroupRefs

Section titled “featureGroupRefs”

`string`\[\]

The FeatureGroup element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### featureRefs

Section titled “featureRefs”

`string`\[\]

The Feature element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### fipsCompliant

Section titled “fipsCompliant”

`boolean`

Enables FIPS compliant algorithms. Can also be enabled via the `TAURI_BUNDLER_WIX_FIPS_COMPLIANT` env var.

##### fragmentPaths

Section titled “fragmentPaths”

`string`\[\]

A list of paths to .wxs files with WiX fragments to use.

**Default**: `[]`

##### language

Section titled “language”

`WixLanguage`

The installer languages to build. See <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/localizing-the-error-and-actiontext-tables\>.

**Default**: `"en-US"`

##### mergeRefs

Section titled “mergeRefs”

`string`\[\]

The Merge element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### template

Section titled “template”

`string` | `null`

A custom .wxs template to use.

##### upgradeCode

Section titled “upgradeCode”

`string` | `null` formatted as `uuid`

A GUID upgrade code for MSI installer. This code **_must stay the same across all of your updates_**, otherwise, Windows will treat your update as a different app and your users will have duplicate versions of your app.

By default, tauri generates this code by generating a Uuid v5 using the string `&lt;productName&gt;.exe.app.x64` in the DNS namespace. You can use Tauri’s CLI to generate and print this code for you, run `tauri inspect wix-upgrade-code`.

It is recommended that you set this value in your tauri config file to avoid accidental changes in your upgrade code whenever you want to change your product name.

##### version

Section titled “version”

`string` | `null`

MSI installer version in the format `major.minor.patch.build` (build is optional).

Because a valid version is required for MSI installer, it will be derived from \[`Config::version`\] if this field is not set.

The first field is the major version and has a maximum value of 255. The second field is the minor version and has a maximum value of 255. The third and foruth fields have a maximum value of 65,535.

See <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/productversion\> for more info.

### WixLanguage

Section titled “WixLanguage”

**Any of the following**:

*   `string` A single language to build, without configuration.
*   `string`\[\] A list of languages to build, without configuration.
*   A map of languages and its configuration. **Allows additional properties**: `WixLanguageConfig`

The languages to build using WiX.

### WixLanguageConfig

Section titled “WixLanguageConfig”

Configuration for a target language for the WiX build.

See more: <https://v2.tauri.app/reference/config/#wixlanguageconfig\>

**Object Properties**:

*   localePath

##### localePath

Section titled “localePath”

`string` | `null`

The path to a locale (`.wxl`) file. See <https://wixtoolset.org/documentation/manual/v3/howtos/ui\_and\_localization/build\_a\_localized\_version.html\>.

Support on Open Collective Sponsor on GitHub

© 2025 Tauri Contributors. CC-BY / MIT